>>> YOU ARE LOOKING, WE WILL
TAKE YOU TO SOME LIVE IMAGES
RIGHT NOW OVER NORTHERN GAZA.
YOU CAN SEE WHAT WE'VE BEEN
WATCHING OUR COMBINATION OF
FLARES AND WHAT APPEAR TO BE
STRIKES AS NIGHT BEGINS TO FALL
OVER THERE IN GAZA AND, OF
COURSE, AS WE'VE BEEN MONITORING
THE ISRAELI MILITARY SAYS IT'S
STILL BEEN TARGETING HAMAS
INFRASTRUCTURE AHEAD OF THE
TRUCE THAT DOESN'T TAKE EFFECT
UNTIL TOMORROW MORNING.
PRIME MINISTER BENJAMIN
NETANYAHU HAS VOWED TO CONTINUE
THE WAR AFTER THE FIGHTING
PAUSED SAYING IT WON'T END
UNTIL, QUOTE, HAMAS IS
DESTROYED, ALL OF THE HOSTAGES
ARE RELEASED AND THERE IS NOBODY
IN GAZA WHO CAN THREATEN ISRAEL.
SO WE WILL CONTINUE TO MONITOR
SOME OF THESE IMAGES AS WE
WELCOME OUR NEXT GUEST, CNN
MILITARY ANALYST AND FORMER NATO
SUPREME ALLIED COMMANDER GENERAL
WESLEY CLARK.
OBVIOUSLY, WE'VE BEEN WATCHING
SOME OF THESE -- SOME OF THESE
IMAGES HERE.
THERE WAS A QUESTION OF HOW,
PERHAPS, INTENSE STRIKES WOULD
BE IN THE LEADUP TO THE ACTUAL
MOMENT THIS TRUCE TOOK EFFECT
AND SO WE'RE EXPECTING IT TO
BEGIN AT 3:00 A.M. EASTERN TIME
AND THIS PRECEDES MY QUESTION,
BUT WHAT DO YOU THINK WILL
HAPPEN LEADING UP TO THAT
MOMENT?
>> FIRST OF ALL, I THINK THE
STRIKES WILL BE AS INTENSE AS
ISRAEL HAS TARGETS FOR.
THERE WILL BE NO SLACKING OFF
UNTIL THE EXACT MOMENT OF THE
TRUCE, AND I'M SURE THIS WAS AN
ISSUE THAT WAS REALLY HAMMERED
OUT IN THE CABINET.
I'M SURE THERE WERE VOICES
SAYING YOU CAN'T GIVE A TRUCE.
YOU'VE GOT TO GO THROUGH WITH
THIS.
YOU'VE GOT TO FINISH THE JOB
AGAINST HAMAS, AND SO THE
ISRAELI MILITARY WILL BE
PRESSING TO DO AS MUCH AS THEY
CAN.
DURING THE TRUCE PERIOD, OMAR,
THEY WILL STILL HAVE THE RIGHT
TO SELF-DEFENSE AND YOU CALL IT
A TRUCE, IT COULD BE CALLED A
PAUSE.
IT COULD BE CALLED A TEMPORARY
CEASEFIRE, BUT WHATEVER YOU CALL
IT, THERE'S NO ENFORCEMENT
MECHANISM, SO THERE ARE NO
INDEPENDENT OBSERVERS ON THE
GROUND, AND WHAT NORMALLY
HAPPENS WHEN THIS KIND OF A
PAUSE OCCURS IS MAYBE THE
SHOOTING STOPS FOR A WHILE, BUT
PRETTY SOON IT STARTS AGAIN
BECAUSE SOMEONE FEELS THREATENED
AND THEY HAVE THE RIGHT TO
SELF-DEFENSE.
AFTER THE PERIOD OF FOUR OR FIVE
DAYS ASSUMING THE HOSTAGES GET
RELEASED ON SCHEDULE, UNLESS
THERE IS A CONTINUING RELEASE OF
HOSTAGES BEYOND THE 50 AS PRIME
MINISTER NETANYAHU SAID, HE'S
GOING TO RESUME AND THIS WILL BE
THE REAL STRUGGLE.
THERE WILL BE STRONG POLITICAL
FORCES AND PRESSURE ON ISRAEL
NOT TO RESUME.
SO HOW THIS GETS RESOLVED IS THE
KEY, STRATEGIC PROBLEM FOR
ISRAEL.
>> AND FOR THOSE TUNING IN, WE
ARE MONITORING THE SCENE OVER
GAZA RIGHT NOW.
WE'VE BEEN SEEING SOME FLARES
AND A COMBINATION OF WHAT
APPEARS SOME STRIKES GOING INTO
GAZA AS NIGHT BEGINS TO FALL AND
OBVIOUSLY UNDER 20 HOURS TO WHEN
THIS TRUCE TAKES EFFECT BEFORE
THEN.
WHEN WE LOOK, GENERAL, AT SOME
OF THE DETAILS IN THIS DEAL.
A FOUR TO FIVE-DAY PAUSE AND
WHAT DOES A PAUSE LIKE THIS
TYPICALLY MEAN MILITARILY.
WHAT CAN AND CAN'T YOU DO
ESSENTIALLY IN A TIMEFRAME LIKE
THAT?
>> WHEN IT STARTS, LET'S LOOK AT
IT FROM THE ISRAELI SIDE.
THEY'D LIKE TO PUNISH AND RELAX
AND CAN THEY REALLY TRUST HAMAS
AND THERE WILL BE A PERIOD OF
DOUBT AND THEY'LL HAVE TO KEEP
THEIR GUARD UP AND THEY'LL
CONSOLIDATE THEIR POSITIONS AND
THEY'RE INSIDE GAZA AND THEY
DON'T CONTROL GAZA.
THERE ARE TUNNEL ENTRANCES THAT
ARE BEING SHOT AT FROM BEHIND ON
SOME OCCASIONS AND THEY DON'T
HAVE ANY SECURITY IN THERE.
MAYBE THEY'LL ROTATE SOME TROOPS
IN AND OUT.
ON THE HAMAS SIDE THEY'RE GOING
TO USE IT TO CONSOLIDATE,
REPLENISH, RESUPPLY, REORGANIZE
AND TRY TO RE-ESTABLISH
COMMUNICATIONS AND BE READY FOR
THE NEXT WAVE OF THE ISRAELI
FIGHTING.
THIS IS A HUMANITARIAN EFFORT.
THERE WILL BE SOME HUMANITARIAN
ASSISTANCE THAT COMES IN UNLESS
THERE ARE SOME REALLY STRANGE,
STRONG CONTROLS HERE.
HAMAS WILL GET WHAT NEEDS OUT OF
THAT HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE AND
IT WILL REPLENISH ITS OWN FUEL
STOCKS OR WHATEVER.
SO THIS IS -- LET'S GET THE
HOSTAGES OUT.
THAT WILL BE A GREAT THING, BUT
THIS IS FAR FROM OVER, OMAR, AND
IT'S VERY DYNAMIC, IT'S REALLY
HARD TO PREDICT WHERE IT'S GOING
TO GO.
>> IT'S NOT JUST ON THE GROUND.
U.S. AND ISRAEL BOTH PAUSING
DRONE STRIKES OVER HOSTAGE AS
PART OF THE DEAL PER A SENIOR
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIAL.
TO ONE OF THE POINTSES THAT YOU
MADE, ISRAEL'S GOVERNMENT PLANS
TO RESUME THE AIR AND GROUND
CAMPAIGN TO COMPLETED
ERADICATION OF HAMAS AFTER
THIS -- THIS TRUCE, TEMPORARY
PAUSE, WHATEVER YOU WANT TO CALL
IT AND THEY LEFT THE DOOR OPEN
TO CONTINUE THE PAUSES FOR EVERY
TEN HOSTAGES RELEASED.
HOW DO YOU EXPECT ISRAEL TO
BALANCE THE HOSTAGE RELEASE AND
ALSO WITH THEIR GOAL OF
DESTROYING HAMAS?
>> THAT'S THE TOUGH CALL, AND
IT'S A REALLY TOUGH POLITICAL
CALL ON NETANYAHU AND HIS WAR
CABINET BECAUSE THE MILITARY
KNOWS THAT HAMAS IS -- HAMAS TO
WIN -- A VICTORY FOR HAMAS IS
THEY HAVE THE HOSTAGES AND THEY
EMERGE AS HEROES AMONG THE
IRANIANS, HEZBOLLAH AND THE
OTHER JIHAD I GROUPS.
THEY WILL USE THE HOSTAGES AND
EVENTUALLY THEY HOPE ISRAEL WILL
LOSE THE APPETITE FOR THE FIGHT
AND THEY'LL SAY WE MADE IT.
IT WAS A SUCCESSFUL OPERATION.
ISRAEL KNOWS THIS.
ISRAEL KNOWS THAT IF THEY DON'T,
ELIMINATE COMING OUT OF LEBANON
SO THIS IS A REALLY, REALLY
TOUGH CALL.
IN THE PAST ISRAEL HAS TURNED
LOOSE A THOUSAND PRISONERS TO
GET ONE ISRAELI SOLDIER BACK.
SO THE WEIGHT ON ISRAEL IS HUMAN
LIFE, ISRAELI HUMAN LIFE IS THE
MOST IMPORTANT OVERRIDING
FACTOR, BUT THIS IS THE FIRST
TIME THAT ISRAEL HAS DECLARED AN
EXISTENTIAL THREAT ACCORDING TO
PRIME MINISTER NETANYAHU.
THIS IS, HAMAS, IS AN
EXISTENTIAL THREAT.
MAYBE THAT CHANGES THE
CALCULOUS.
THERE ARE ALL KIND OF DYNAMICS
THAT MAKE IT VERY UNPREDICTABLE,
OMAR.
>> OF COURSE, I SHOULD MENTION
AGAIN, AS YOU'VE BEEN TALKING
WE'VE BEEN SEEING THOSE FLARES
AS NIGHT BEGINS TO FALL AND A
LOT OF DYNAMICS TO KEEP AN EYE
ON EVEN AHEAD OF THI